# Specification of the RTEdbg binary log file format

The basic format of a binary log file is the same as in the *g_rtedbg* data structure - see the definitions of the *rtedbg_t* data structure in the [rtedbg_int.h](https://github.com/RTEdbg/RTElib/blob/master/Inc/rtedbg_int.h) header file. 
Developers or testers simply need to download the contents of the g_rtedbg data structure from the embedded system and write it to a file. See the *RTEdbg manual* for further description. The data structure contains everything needed to decode the binary data for single shot, snapshot, or post-mortem logging. In addition, of course, format files are needed to define how the contents of each message type are printed (decoded).

During the development of the RTEmsg application, an extended format for data streaming and multiple snapshots was also developed. However, there are currently no tools for transferring data from an embedded system to a host that support this format. There is no documentation in English for this, as it will most likely be updated/changed during the development of tools for streaming mode data transfer to a host. Those interested in the current implementation should download the code from this repository and search for the texts: *streaming, multiple snapshot, multiple single shot* in the files. This format version will most likely remain in the code, but a different way of writing logged data will be used for the streaming mode transfer tool to transfer the more complex part of the data processing from the embedded system data acquisition tool to the RTEmsg application. There will probably be more data transfer applications, and therefore it does not make sense to include data processing such as pattern matching, overflow detection, etc. in each of them. And the simplified recording method (simple file format) also makes it easier to transfer multiple snapshots that the firmware would write to an SD card, for example.

This specification will be updated when the first streaming mode and multiple snapshots data transfer tool is implemented. The current streaming mode format will also be documented. It is currently only documented in the source code. Most of the support for it is in the files: decoder.c, process_bin_data.c, and read_bin_data.c.
